>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: This may not be pertinent
and we can come back to it later.
Earlier when futzing around,
I had created a version,
a collection that only had title content,
didn't have any of the user fields.
Later went back, saw that there
wasn't a method for adding say,
the UID or the display name fields
via the database ui in the browser.
>> Steve Kinney: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 1: Is this just too
much of a SQL-based paradigm that,
there could be plenty of documents.
I know like those SQL databases
before I've worked in like yeah,
you just don't need those, and
you don't need to add them in and
there are plenty [CROSSTALK]
>> Steve Kinney: That's a great question,
it's-
>> Speaker 1: Is that how it would
work with-
>> Steve Kinney: It's willy nilly, right?.
>> Speaker 1: Cool, all right.
>> Steve Kinney: There's
no necessitated schema.
Which opens a series of problems, right?
Not problems,
let's call them opportunities.
Which is on one hand, it's great for when
you're prototyping, figuring stuff out,
because you can just add
new fields to a document.
It does mean A few things.
One is, especially if we were thinking
about like on the web, we're kind of
pushing out code every time, but
if you think about this also in the native
application like if you're making React
Native application or even iOS or Android.
You don't always know that the client,
the app, is the most recent
version of the app talking to the most
recent version of the database.
So it does require that we code
a little bit more defensively.
And you'll see some of
that as I'm coding today,
where it's like there'll
probably be documents,
I'll probably have to wipe some out,
but there are ways to migrate the data.
There are ways that we can basically spin
up a node process and go through and
programmatically add
fields if we needed to.
We'll do with called functions, but
you can use the same
technique to just call them.
When we use the Firebase Admin Library
you can just also just run that and
do it as well.
It does mean that we need to code
a little bit defensively and
it does mean that yeah, some documents
might not have the things that we need so
we'd need to figure out
a way to migrate them.
But there is no rule, documents can have
whatever, there's no enforced schema.
When we get to validations and
security rules we can start to make some
enforcements that will reject stuff.
And we can use called functions
to add in things, right?
Right now we don't have a,
we're just trusting the client when
we get to doing a createdAt date.
It'd be better to have
a cloud function do it.
Right, so cloud functions can edit
the documents after they've been created.
And we can always just go ahead and
migrate our data and
add fields if we needed them.
So there's a bunch of options.
But to your point, we also need to code
defensively cuz we don't really know.
>> Speaker 1: Smaller,
possible less pertinent question.
In Rails land I would probably set up
a cron job to run a rate ask or something.
Would setting up a cloud function on a con
[CROSSTALK]
>> Steve Kinney: So
cloud function technically-
>> Speaker 1: Or would it be, yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: Yes, technically
something has to trigger a cloud function.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: So
there's a few ways to do it.
One is you can have a cron job that
triggers [LAUGH] a cloud function, right?
But when we learn how to do it just
through HTTPS requests, you can
theoretically have a cron job that hits
that HTTPS endpoint on a regular basis.
And those services,
I think Pingdom will do it where you can
just have it regularly ping something.
So yeah, that's a thing as well.
At SendGrid,
we use a lot of AWS lambda functions, and
there is a certain amount of cold start
time, right, that we have to pay for.
Pay not in money, but in performance.
So what we'll do in a lot of cases,
kind of occasionally keep
pinging them to keep them alive?
Right, cuz once they're warm and
running they're already going and
they can respond really quickly.
But if they get turned off by AWS then
that's a performance penalty as they
spin back up.
So we're willing to pay the extra fraction
of a penny to occasionally keep them warm.
And so you can do stuff like that as well.
When we see some of these when we
first deploy a cloud function later,
we'll see that like it is displeasing
how long some of them take at first.
And then when we do the second
thing it's almost instantaneous.
So we'll actually get to see some
of that at one point as well.